# ArtOfSorting

Welcome to my final year dissertation project.

Abstract:
This project involves the development of a system to be used as an educational art exhibition. A combination of light and sound are used to demonstrate the functionality of a collection of different sorting algorithms. The project as a whole is based on the python language. A Raspberry Pi is used as a microcontroller to interface with a range of peripheral devices. Namely, an addressable LED strip, USB microphone, USB speaker, and a 5” touchscreen display. The LED strip and speaker are used such that they mirror the state of an array stored in memory. This array contains 144 unique values in the range 1 to 144. Each value corresponds to a unique colour in the RGB spectrum that is displayed on the LED strip, as well as a unique tone that can be output over the speaker whenever this value is accessed. As the array is sorted by a given algorithm, the LED strip is updated such that it mirrors the state of the internal array. User interaction is included through a combination of touch screen input, and microphone input; allowing allow a range of effects to be applied to the system. Notably slowdown effects on certain operations such as array reads and array writes. As the system is intended have an educational value, an attempt has been made to integrate algorithms in a way that is sympathetic to their individual time complexities. With small adjustments made wherever necessary. The scope of these adjustments varies between algorithms, however, a unified approach for how to represent certain operations using the LED strip has been designed and implemented. Overall, the project was successful. A system exhibiting the behaviours described above was produced, and was appropriately tested and evaluated.

Final thesis available at: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1daZNpo1k5xqofsk6kEJFcfd08IZ1C2ZO/view?usp=sharing

Video demonstration available at: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-rAscOoJTW_grwXPw95lwXPc6sDfHFu-/view?usp=sharing
